---
author: tvdsluijs
category:
- Tech
comments: 'true'
date: 2013-05-23 23:28
excerpt_separator: < !--more -->
layout: post
publish_date: 2013-05-23 23:28
slug: say-bye-bye-to-excel-say-hello-to-jira-
tags:
- Excel
- Agile
- Jira
- Atlassian
- Development
title: Say bye bye to Excel, say Hello To Jira!

---
What? You’re still using Excel as your bug tracking system? You are kidding me
right? If your still using excel within your team as bug tracking system
you’re not really working on the bugs. No your working on the excel sheet to
get all the bugs / feature requests and tasks right in place.

If you think you can … no should do better as a development lead / manager
keep reading. Cause using Excel as ticket tool is so 2012!
< !--more -->
Here’s the new [Jira](http://www.atlassian.com/software/jira "Use Jira")! Say
What? [Jira](http://www.atlassian.com/software/jira "Use Jira")! Oh sorry,
let’s start at the beginning of my Jira career!

In 2011 I started working at Bax-shop.nl.

> Bax shop.nl was founded in 2003 and with more than 150 employees serving the
market aimed at music lovers and music makers (dj `s, producers and
musicians).

When I started as a Software Development Manager I found a real mess.
Developers were developing, but they did not know what tickets there were, who
was working on what and what the needs were of their customers (internally &
externally)

They worked with this great versioning system called FTP (yeah, that worked
really nice :-( ) and the developers where crumpy and could never ever really
finish a task or project.

So my first goal was to fix that great Excel sheet they were working with.
Well guess what…. the Excel file was not going to solve my problems nor was it
going to solve my dev-team problems.

Excel had to go!

But what then? We did not had a good ticket / bug tracking system. So I give
one of the team members the assignment to find me the ultimate tool but, (well
I am from the province of Zeeland, and those people are known that they are
economical), it had to be free (or almost free)

It took him quite some research, and some time to come up with several
bugtracking / ticket systems.

Here’s the list he came up with.

  * eTraxsis
  * WebIssue’s
  * Bugzilla
  * Trac
  * Mantis
  * BugNet

Well: the complete list can be found
[here](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_of_issue-tracking_systems
"Bugtracking / Ticket software").

I told him, no no no tried them all…. nothing really works. I need a good
system.

Then he came up with a system called
[Jira](http://www.atlassian.com/software/jira "Use Jira"). He told me that it
just cost a little.

And that is true, for 10 developers you will only pay 10 dollars ! That’s it!
Ten Bucks for ten developers.

I looked at this ticket/bug tracking system and thought it really looked
great. I just had to convince the board of directors that we had to spend a
whole 10 dollars to use this piece of software. :-)

So we started using it. And soon after we started to use
[Confluence](http://www.atlassian.com/software/confluence/overview/team-
collaboration-software) as our Wiki / Intranet. I really hated the Wiki
software before Confluence, it was called MediaWiki and you had to have a
Master Degree in Coding to use it. Not that I had a problem with that, but my
non development colleagues did not understand how to create a page, table or
whatever.

I’ll tell more about Confluence in an other blog post.

So Jira, did it work? Well at first not really, that means. Some developers
were really not happy with the thought of losing that good old Excel sheet.
The learning curve is not really steep, but you have to got every developer on
the same track to get it to work.

Soon after implementation we also installed Bonfire on our browsers and on the
browsers of the Helpdesk Team of the webshop. No more there’s a problem on
this page emails. But good screenshots with arrows or text on it where the
problem really is, and what the problem is about.

Also the MS paint lovers removed Paint from their windows machines. (yeah,
like that really is possible :-) ), Well they removed the shortcut icon from
their desktop.

After we got the hang of Jira, we started to use Jira together with Scrum and
the Agile tools of the Atlassian product list. Not only then we could see the
amount of work that was being done, we also had a good look on what we still
had to do as that was our Backlog.

After one and a half year we where pushing our boundaries even further. As we
are a fast growing company, and also the needs and features for our webshop
are growing our backlog became bigger and bigger.

Yes, don’t worry, we got a really big amount of the work done, but as Jira and
bonfire provided us with a easy tracking system everybody wanted to use it.
And guess what, everybody had a big pile of wishes.

So we had this use backlog, and we somehow got to the point were we started.
Big pile of work… what to do next.

So we introduced Kanban to the team. And we divided our work into Kanban items
(not ready for work) and scrum items (ready to be put on the sprint(s).

Did we come up with that brilliant way of working ourselves? I wish I could
say Yes :-), but no Atlassian helped us with this way of working.

Not only are they making great products that helps productivity to a very high
level, they also help you solve daily problems, like having big (to big)
backlogs.

If your want to know more about the kanban / scrum way of splitting up your
big list of todo’s please read : [How to Manage a Product Backlog with
Ease](http://blogs.atlassian.com/2013/04/how-to-manage-a-product-backlog-with-
ease/ "How to manage a product backlog with ease with Jira")

Our lessons learned?

  1. Don’t use Excel, use a real ticket/bug tracking system. I guess any will do in the beginning, for us Jira is perfect!
  2. Take your time to implement and learn from the system, take small steps and try to make your way of using the system better and better.
  3. Follow the guys at [Atlassian](http://blogs.atlassian.com/ "Blog at Atlassian"), they really have good ideas!
  4. Don’t stop working on your system if you think it’s okay, you can always do better with it!

So, our team really got better by using Jira. We’re more structured and do
more in less time.

If you have any questions about Jira or about this article, do not hesitate to
contact me. I’m more then happy to help.

