---
layout: post
title: 'Windows 10 Can’t Open Apps in Search Bar'
slug: 'windows'
date: '2018-02-21 08:02:57.105000+00:00'
excerpt_separator: < !--more -->
publish_date: '2018-02-21 08:02:57.105000+00:00'
image:
  path: '/images/1*fwZ4S8XeCNJ7d9JHEegPTw.png'
  feature: '1*fwZ4S8XeCNJ7d9JHEegPTw.png'
  credit: 'Cortana / Microsoft / Halo'
categories: ['Tech']
tags: 
 - 'Windows 10'
 - 'Cortana'
 - 'Powershell'
 - 'Microsoft'
---
So, I’m stuck with using Windows 10 at work. I would like to use a Macbook,
hell I would even buy a Macbook to only work with it at work…

So, I’m stuck with using Windows 10 at work. I would like to use a Macbook,
hell I would even buy a Macbook to only work with it at work. But… policy is
Windows. So I just deal with it. Windows is not a bad OS it just has some
shortages and flaws in like all of the code.
< !--more -->
And yes, I love working on Macbooks. Not only because they just work, it seems
like OS X just really works better.

So yes I guess I’m a Mac lover, but I’m not a real Windows hater. But lately I
had this problem on Windows that really annoyed me!

So I searched and searched until I found a solution (kind of).

#### Love Shortcuts, but can’t type in cortana search box

So I love Shortcuts. Why use your mouse when you can use shortcut keys!
Shortcut keys are much faster when you know them.

And why search for applications when you can shortcut search and open them
right from your keyboard. Both Windows and OS X have a way to fast open
applications without going mouseclick by mouse click in the start menu.

If you press the windows key on your keyboard and start typing the application
name, windows will search for it very quickly and with the press of the ENTER
key it will start.

On OS X the same works by pressing CMD+Space. Type the name and after ENTER
the app will start.

But Windows has a problem. The problem is called Cortana. As she is supposed
to be an AI sometimes she brakes things. And when she is broken she creates a
number of Windows problems. Like unable to type in the searchbox when pressing
the windows key.

#### Windows 10 can’t click search bar

So I could actually type in the searchbar… but when Cortana found the
application I could not click it! Pressing ENTER was also not working. I saw
the application but I could not open it.

When I was going thru the startmenu manually and I clicked the same
application it would just open.

As this was really annoying I started searching the web.

I found many many posts!

  * Windows 10 can’t click search bar
  * Can’t type in cortana search box
  * Can’t type in Windows 10 search bar
  * Windows 10 — Can’t Open Apps From Search Bar
  * Windows 10 64bit, can’t type in search bar / start menu

And none of them came with a working solution apart from reinstalling Windows
10. Yes yes I’ve tried turning it off and on again.

The IT Crowd

So as I was almost going to ask the IT Crowd at work for help I found a
solution. So… a kind of Solution.

### Solution Windows 10 Open Apps From Search Bar

There are 3 kind of solutions. And I have to tell you upfront… one of them
will work, but the problem seems to re-appear after a while.

The problems seems to be with Cortana. She’s a stubborn AI and sometimes she
just breaks things. Like the searchbar.

Since Cortana is a system application she cannot be uninstalled like other
applications. You also cannot remove the settings folder in your user profile
because the SYSTEM account constantly has open file handles to this folder.

#### First solution Searching apps windows 10

So I’m not sure if this will work, but it is one of the most easiest options.

  * Press Win + R (to open Run )
  * copy paste and press enter to run this program.



    C:\Windows\system32\ctfmon.exe

  * it brings back the language bar and for me it allowed me to type in windows search, start menu and WINDOWS 10 apps again

I think it could solve your problem due to a missing Language bar.

#### Second solution click and open apps in search bar

So this solution is somewhat more complicated and you can do it two ways.

The first easy one is where you have admin rights on your pc. I’ve you do not
have admin rights you try the second one but you have to be fast.

 **Easy way, with admin rights!**

  1. Create a new administrator on your Window 10 and sign in as that user
  2. Delete (or rename) C:\Users\<PROBLEM USER>\AppData\Local\Packages\Microsoft.Windows.Cortana_cw5n1h2txyewy
  3. Sign back in as the PROBLEM USER
  4. Open PowerShell as an admin and type (or paste)



    Add-AppxPackage -Path “C:\Windows\SystemApps\Microsoft.Windows.Cortana_cw5n1h2txyewy\Appxmanifest.xml” -DisableDevelopmentMode -Register

 **No Admin rights? No problem, you just have to be fast**

  1. Delete (or rename) C:\Users\<PROBLEM USER>\AppData\Local\Packages\Microsoft.Windows.Cortana_cw5n1h2txyewy
  2. You cannot delete everything here because of system rights
  3. Try to rename as many files as you can and then delete them
  4. Open Taskmanager and find Cortana
  5. Have open 2 windows, one explorer with the file you cannot delete and one with taskmanager -> Cortana
  6. End Cortana (The bitch will restart really fast so be quick with the next step)
  7. Rename the file (if you are not fast enough Cortana will block this, so try again)
  8. Delete C:\Users\<PROBLEM USER>\AppData\Local\Packages\Microsoft.Windows.Cortana_cw5n1h2txyewy
  9. Open PowerShell as an admin and type (or paste)



    Add-AppxPackage -Path “C:\Windows\SystemApps\Microsoft.Windows.Cortana_cw5n1h2txyewy\Appxmanifest.xml” -DisableDevelopmentMode -Register

#### Third way of dealing with the click problem in search bar

So, this last solution of solving the typing or searching or clicking in the
search bar is not tested by me. But you seem to be able to use it when
removing the Cortana files in the above mentioned solutions.

Just open PowerShell and type (or paste)



    Get-AppXPackage -AllUsers | Foreach {Add-AppxPackage -DisableDevelopmentMode -Register “$($_.InstallLocation)\AppXManifest.xml”}

Now you can do two things. Restart you pc and see if it works again, or delete
(or rename) C:\Users\<PROBLEM
USER>\AppData\Local\Packages\Microsoft.Windows.Cortana_cw5n1h2txyewy

#### If all fails

Well you can always try to reinstall Windows 10 or end up buying a computer
with a real grown up OS like a Macbook, Macbook Pro or iMac.

Good luck! Let me know if one of the solutions helped you!
